<pre>
RIP: 14
Title: RIP14 Metadata Specification
Authors: The Mango Farm Team
Comments-Summary: comments incorporated
Comments-URI: https://github.com/RavenProject/rips
Status: Draft
Type: Process
Reference Implementation: https://www.mangofarmassets.com
Created: 2019-06-13
</pre>

==Abstract==

This RIP proposes a metadata specification for asset creation to complement [[rip-0011.mediawiki|RIP11 - Asset Metadata Encryption Protocol]] and to extend the [https://github.com/RavenProject/Ravencoin/blob/develop/assets/asset_metadata_spec.md Ravencoin Metadata Specification].

This specification is drawn from and extends the concepts in the [https://github.com/RavenProject/Ravencoin/blob/develop/assets/asset_metadata_spec.md Ravencoin Metadata Specification], to facilitate:

# attaching and/or linking multiple files to asset metadata;
# encrypting attached files consistent with [[rip-0011.mediawiki|RIP11]]; 
# categorizing of nested JSON data; and
# versioning to allow explorers and wallets to adopt this and future metadata specifications with forward and backward compatability.

==Motivation==

A JSON specification for attaching/linking multiple files of various types, and encrypting those files, will expand the potential usefulness of asset metadata by allowing the attachment of multiple files and/or URIs and facilitating the encryption and decryption of metadata documents and files on a wallet- and platform-agnostic basis.

==Methodology==

The following extended JSON specification can be used as the basis for the IPFS hash when issuing Ravencoin assets to facilitate encryption and decryption of asset information:

<pre>
{
	"rip0014": {
		"metadata": {
			"asset_data": {
				"icon": "<base 64 encoded png (64x64 is recommended)>",
				"name": "<full asset name>",
				"description": "<asset description>",
				"type": "<e.g., Title, Points, Shares, Tickets>",
				"restrictions": "<e.g., Rule 144, Members Only>",
				"keywords": "<Baseball Cards, Coins, Book Of The Month Club>"
			},
			"admin_data": {
				"issuer": "<issuer>",
				"website": "<website>",
				"contact_name": "<contact name>",
				"website_url": "<website>",
				"contact_email": "<contact email>",
				"address": "<physical address>"
			},
			"forsale_data": {
				"sale_price": "<price for the admin token>",
				"coin": "<3 letter ticker for currency, e.g., RVN, BTC, USD>"
			},
			"other_data": {
				"<key1>": "<value>",
				"<key2>": "<value>",
				"<key3>": "<value>"
			},
			"encryption": {
				"algorithm": "<e.g., AES, TripleSec>",
				"attachments": [
					"<IPFS hash encrypted attachment 1 created per. RIP11>",
					"<IPFS hash for encrypted attachment 2 created per. RIP11>",
					"<IPFS hash for encrypted attachment n created per. RIP11>"
				],
				"recipients": {
					"<recipient 1 encryption address>": "<PGP encrypted symmetric key of recipient 1 per. RIP11>",
					"<recipient 2 encryption address>": "<PGP encrypted symmetric key of recipient 2 per. RIP11>",
					"<recipient n encryption address>": "<PGP encrypted symmetric key of recipient n per. RIP11>"
				}
			},
			"ipfs_attachments": [
					"<IPFS hash for unencrypted attachment 1>",
					"<IPFS hash for unencrypted attachment 2>",
					"<IPFS hash for unencrypted attachment n>"
			],
			"url_links": [
					"<url link 1>",
					"<url link 2>",
					"<url link n>"
			]
		},
		"metadata_signature": {
			"signature_hash": "<SHA256 hash of the immediately preceding metadata JSON object {...}>",
			"signature": "<Ravencoin signed signature_hash>"
		}
	}
}
</pre>

===Supported Attributes===

'''rip0014''' - Specifies the metadata version (in this case, RIP14).

'''asset_data''' - Specifies the headline metadata for the asset, including the icon, full asset name, description, asset type, whether the asset has any restrictions and keywords to facilitate indexing and searching.

'''admin_data''' - Specifies contact and other information about the issuer/owner of the administrator asset.

'''forsale_data''' - Specifies whether the administrator asset is for sale, the price, and the currency.

'''other_data''' - Specifies any additional data or information that is not covered by the other specific metadata categories.

'''encryption''' - Indicates the encryption data (encryption algorithm, an array of encrypted attachments of any filetype, and recipient encryption addresses and ciphertext), for use when IPFS attachments have been encrypted under [[rip-0011.mediawiki|RIP11]].

'''ipfs_attachments''' - An array of IPFS hashes included in the metadata file as attachments. These can be documents, images, media files or other filetypes. Multiple attachments can be included of different types.

'''url_links''' - An array of links included in the metadata file.

'''metadata_signature''' - Indicates signature information for the metadata. This allows for signing of all metadata associated with the asset, including any immutable ipfs_hash included in the metadata as described above.
* "signature_hash" is the SHA256 hash in ascii hex of the immediately preceding JSON object - ''i.e.,'' all information between and including the  brackets after "metadata": {...}.

* "signature" is the signature_hash signed with the private key of the address that issued or reissued the asset.

==Implementation==

The methodology outlined in this RIP has been automated on [https://www.mangofarmassets.com Mango Farm], providing a proof of concept for its use as a standardized process.

==References==
* [[rip-0011.mediawiki|RIP11 - Asset Metadata Encryption Protocol]].
* [https://github.com/RavenProject/Ravencoin/blob/develop/assets/asset_metadata_spec.md Ravencoin Metadata Specification].
